a report by the charity Oxfam says
Israel is blocking Aid to Gaza in spite
of a ruling by the international court
of justice in January the court told
Israel it cannot continue to bombard
displace and starve the population under
its obligations to the genocide
convention the Oxfam report says the
International Community has failed to
challenge Israel for systemically
undermining Aid deliveries and that
Israel has uh made bringing in Aid so
dangerous and dysfunctional that
agencies cannot respond to the scale of
suffering let's bring in Hassan barari
professor of international Affairs at
Qatar University Hassan the first thing
that jumps out uh to me when I read that
report is once again making crystal
clear that Israel with the way it's
behaving with humanitarian Aid not
allowing it in at the pace and volume
that it is needed is in flagrant
violation of international law it's not
just the ruling of the international
court of justice as oxan points out it's
also un Security Council resolution back
in December yeah well this is an
indication that the Israeli government
doesn't um give any attention to these
yeah all the security Council or even
the international law uh as long as they
can't continue the war the the one they
want the pace they want I mean they
don't care I mean this is obvious it has
been proved time and again uh that the
Israelis have one strategy is to
undermine the uh the aid to the
Palestinians in order to bring them to
the brink of famine so that they will
probably leave Gaza and the the scenario
put by the Israelis from the g go is to
kick the Palestinians out of Gaza I
think this is part of the strategy of
course they deny that what what they do
of course we will not come like in
public say yes we want to expel the
Palestinians well some have some some
farri right members of the Israeli
cabinet have uh I believe it was SMR who
has uh who has invited I believe with
the words using invited gazin to use
opportunities to leave Gaza not only SM
and even Gallant the Minister of Defense
at the very beginning he said you know
you guys can't leave no electricity no
water nothing I mean he was like
threatening them that you know Gaza will
not be a place for you to live so this
is the strategy of the of the Israelis I
think we have to look at the broader
image here is the demographic balance I
mean probably one of the the head and
agenda of the Israelis is to make the
Palestinian less and L in this uh area
that stretch between the Mediterranean
and the river because as you know now
the Palestinians are more the majority
of the the Palestinians so they want to
be the Israelis want to make them the
minority maybe this is also uh part of
broader strategy uh so um denying them
food and and water sugar and flowers is
also you know is to kick them out of
Gaza I think this is this is a strategy
I wonder what you think of the the the
Convoy of trucks that we just showed so
it's the second day that we see a convoy
of trucks not that many we're talking
about 19 yesterday 18 um sorry 12 the
day before um trucks carrying flour
other essential uh um essential items
from Southern Gaza to the north and it's
the first time in months that there
haven't been any incidents because
previously we've seen them be attacked
pretty systematically what do you make
of this is this a Band-Aid just good for
Optics it's is maybe in Israel's
interest to allow this or is this a
blueprint perhaps for increasing Aid to
the north I wouldn't see it as a
blueprint I would say that it's it shows
one thing that it's doable if the
Israelis allow this so there's nothing
can impede it other than the Israeli
bombardment this one thing second it's a
drop in the buet so it's really not much
it won't make a huge difference the only
way is to have so why is it happening
why isra is you know I think they're
responding a little bit to the American
pressure because the Americans have been
saying you know the Israeli should allow
and even uh the Senate majority leaders
uh he was saying you know n need to step
down so I think there are a lot of
pressures coming from the Americans and
I this this is a way of mitigating the
pressures
um appearing as if Israel is doing its
best in order to make their lives easier
but I think this is a drop in the bucket
and it would not won't make a huge
difference so mostly for the Optics then
in your view uh all Aid agencies say
that in order to Surge Aid to the
Palestinians surge Aid into Gaza there
needs to be a ceasefire it so happens
that ceasefire negotiations will resume
today in Doha uh do you see that do you
see a ceasefire as a possibility as a
result of these negotiations of it is of
course I mean depends on the Israelis
well you say of course but we've seen
them break down so many times I'm say
it's a possibility but I'm not saying
that's going to happen simply because
the Israelis have their own conditions
and they want only the first stage of
the deal where whereas Hamas wants three
stages so I think there a lot of
disagreement among them I think if the
mediators can iron out these differences
and come up with a common ground
probably we're going to see if a ceas
fire a temporary one at least a
temporary one my question is more do you
do you believe in a ceasefire anytime
soon because we've seen these
negotiations we've seen optimism
expressed sometimes by the US sometimes
by qari mediators although not in a long
time and then they've all broken down I
can't I can't see a temporary one yes
okay yeah temporary yeah of course
temporary because the Israelis need to
continue the war because this is also a
domestic need for Netanyahu it's not
only he want to defeat Hamas it's about
his own political survival so putting an
end to the conflict right now and have a
permanency Fair would probably be the
final nail in his political cff Hassan
barari thank you very much for joining
us in the studio this hour thank you
yeah